1.  what is the use of numpy and pandas.
2.  what are the data structures in python.
3.  what is binary search
4.  what is for loop
5.  what is printf and scand
6.  Explain your major project
7.  what do u know about it industry
8.  Whether did a project in software side. If yes, what is the project you worked on and tell about it.
9.  What is your favourite subject?
10.  Tell me about Machine Learning
11.  Difference between ML,AI,DL

**Python**

**1. What is python? 2. What are the sequence data types? 3. Lambda function? 4. About lists and tuples 5. What are data types in Python?**

**1. How to stop an infinite iterations in python? 2. Write a code to store and reuse programme in Python?**

**1. advantages  & disadvantage of Python 2. decorators in python 3. Deep copy vs Shallow copy 4. OOP concepts.**

**HTML/CSS**

**1. Tell me the selectors in css? 2. Which expression is used to represent ID in css? 3. basic html tags**

**DBMS**

**1. Types of Database Language(DDL,DML,DCL & TCL) 2. What is MySQL. 3. Queries on MySQL 4. Difference between TRUNCATE & DELETE. 5. Triggers in MySQL**

**C/C++**

**1. tell me about union 2. difference between structure and union 3. What is LIFO and FIFO**

---

5.  6.  difference between python and java What tcs give to their employees? What is the work done by the employees? Where would you see after 10 years. Denormalization Stack Linked list Call by vaule Call by reference Program to interface microprocessor Define microprocessor Functionality of microprocessor Why IT Embedded systems Vs IT field Hobbies What motivates you Why do I hire you Which operating system do you know About breadth first search traversal and binary tree Do you have any certifications Do you participate in any coding competitions Do you participate in any hackathons 4.Write a program to find the sum of even and odd numbers from 1 to100 5.What are pointers? Express about you What did you do with the programming languages you learnt.(Like if python -ML,java -web apps) What is big data. In what current scenarios it is used? What other trending technologies you have learnt? How you connect to database(qstn from my project).write the code Are you willing to relocate to any area or do you have constraints? Given a project, how do you express that to yourr manager? Your strengths and weakness? I have done projects in 3 years.if you are asked to do a project in other than these will you do? Are you a team player. How do u support your statemnt with scenario you faced in your life 1)why C language? 2)what is difference between C and Java 3)what are the  features of oops. 5)Round Robin algorithm 6)bubble sort and bucket sort 7)code to check whether a number in range from 1 to 100 is multiple of 5 or not? Puzzles: 1)maximum probability to coin touch the maximum boxes in chess board 2)In a 100 floor building, find minimum number of floor to check whether ball will break or not when ball is thrown from that floor HR: 1))Why IT instead of going to core(for ece) What is dangling pointer What is method overloading and method overriding What are the stages of sdlc What is waterfall model? Would you use waterfall model for college webpage What is your area of interest ? And questions based on that 1) introduce yourself. 2) abstraction in java 3) threads in java 4) OSI model 5) demand paging 6) project 7) why java platform independent 8) garbage collection in java 9) TCP UDP difference 10) can you work during night shifts 11) willing to relocate 12) finding middle value of linked list efficiently. 1)Oops Concepts 2)final and finally in java 3) errors and exception 4) 5 8) 9)SDLC 10)azile model 11) testing techniques 12)why TCS 13) willing to relocate 14)work on weekends, night shifts 15)smart work and hard work 16) strength and weekness What is Array? What is Data type? What is CallBy value and CallBy reference? What is Interface in java? What is pointer and how to declare? What is global and local variables? How to declare integer? 1.tell me About yourelf and your background 2.difference between jvm and jre 4.local variable and instance variable 5.multi threading 7.properties of RBBMS 8.join 9.delete truncate difference 10.create table syntax 11.varchar vs char 12. why tcs and what you about 13.static block vs static class vs static variable 14. do you have any backlog 15. about project TR 1-Question regarding my research paper. 2- do u know any language 3- what is difference between java , c and c++ 4- er 5- how many paper you have read for your research paper MR 1-Why u want to pursue IT carrier though u have done well in electrical. 2-question regarding my blog 3- wfh ya office work which one is more productive? 4- can you work from home after joining ? 5- what is your role in your research paper . HR 1-  why u want to join tcs 2- what are your suggestions regarding increasing women employee % in tcs. 3- are you ready to relocate? 4- are you ready to work in any shift 5- any questions? TCS NQT (CSE) INTERVIEW 👉my SQL 👉 queries on my SQL 👉DDL,DML,DCL,TCL 👉 difference between truncate and delete 👉 triggers in my SQL 👉basic logic of prime no , rev string and palindrome 👉aksed about IOT project MR questions 👉 greatest challenge in your life 👉where do u see yourself after 5 years 👉what did u do in quarantine HR 👉what do u follow in your life give a practical example 👉any questions 1. Tell me about your project 2. Project in brief 3. Tools used in project 4. Polymorphism with example 5. Fibbanacci series and code 6. Method overloading 7. Method overriding with examples 8. Interface 9. Which langauge your comfortable in programming and Why? 10. Do you have any questions MR:  1 TR Questions: 1. Write a program to count number of vowels and consonants in a given string 2. What is JSON how you will access a json  3. What was the questions that you solved in written test?   HR Questions: 1. Tell me about your self 2. Why do you want to join TCS? 3. Is it ok if you are placed in the north east part of India? ------------------------------------------------   1. tell me about yourself 2. internships, training 3. projects 4. c, cpp diff 5. major concepts in oops 6. what is generator, alternator 7. cut-off freq. 8. sampling theorem 9. will you relocate 10. why should we hire you 11. what is a repeater 12 courses done 13. where do you see yourself in 5 yrs ------------------------------------------------ Two technical and one HR. 1.abt mentioned technologies in resume 2.abt mentioned projects in resume 3.projects continue 4 .projects related questions. 5. Oops and java 6. Wherr are u from 7. What u want to be on joining.. 8. Do u have any questions ------------------------------------------------ TR: 1.Tell me about yourself? 2. Which programming language you know? 3. Collections in java. 4. Difference between arrays and collection? 5. Difference between c++ and java. 6. Difference between hashmap and Set? 7. What is list in java? 8. What is storage in SQL (pl/sql)? 9. What us DML command explain 10. What is oops andues. My tcs interview questions TR 1-Question regarding my research paper. 2- do u know any language 3- what is difference between java , c and c++ 4- write code to convert string into number 5- how many paper you have read for your research paper MR 1-Why u want to pursue IT carrier though u have done well in electrical. 2-question regarding my blog 3- wfh ya office work which one is more productive? 4- can you work from home after joining ? 5- what is your role in your research paper . ?