[[#1.1A - Structure of a program and Comment]]
	- [[#Statement|Statement]]
	- [[#Functions and the main function|Functions and the main function]]
	- [[#Comment|Comment]]

[[#1.1B - Introduction to objects and variables]]
	- [[#Objects and variables|Objects and variables]]
	- [[#Variable instantiation|Variable instantiation]]
	- [[#Data types|Data types]]
	- [[#Defining multiple variables|Defining multiple variables]]
	- [[#Quiz time|Quiz time]]

[[#1.3C - Variable assignment and initialization]]
	- [[#Variable assignment|Variable assignment]]
	- [[#Initialization|Initialization]]
	- [[#Initializing multiple variables|Initializing multiple variables]]

# 1.1A - Structure of a program and Comment

- [[#Statement|Statement]]
- [[#Functions and the main function|Functions and the main function]]
- [[#Comment|Comment]]


## Statement

A computer program is a sequence of instructions that tell the computer what to do.
==A statement is a type of instruction that causes the program to _perform some action_.==

There are many different kinds of statements in C++:

1.  Declaration statements
2.  Jump statements
3.  Expression statements
4.  Compound statements
5.  Selection statements (conditionals)
6.  Iteration statements (loops)
7.  Try blocks

## Functions and the main function

In C++, statements are typically grouped into units called functions. 
==A function is a collection of statements that get executed sequentially (in order, from top to bottom).==

==What is the name of the function that all programs must have? --> main==


==What is a syntax error? --> A syntax error is a compiler error that occurs at compile-time when your program violates the grammar rules of the C++ language.==

==What is the C++ Standard Library ? --> A library file is a collection of precompiled code that has been “packaged up” for reuse in other programs. The C++ Standard Library is a library that ships with C++. It contains additional functionality to use in your programs.==

```cpp
#include <iostream> // preprocessor directive

int main()
{
   std::cout << "Hello world!";
   return 0;
}
```

## Comment

A comment is a programmer-readable note that is inserted directly into the source code of the program. Comments are ignored by the compiler and are for the programmer’s use only.
```cpp
std::cout << "Hello world!"; // Everything from here to the end of the line is ignored
```

```cpp
/* This is a multi-line /* comment */ this is not inside the comment */
// The above comment ends at the first */, not the second */
```


# 1.1B - Introduction to objects and variables

- [[#Objects and variables|Objects and variables]]
- [[#Variable instantiation|Variable instantiation]]
- [[#Data types|Data types]]
- [[#Defining multiple variables|Defining multiple variables]]
- [[#Quiz time|Quiz time]]

## Objects and variables

All computers have memory, called RAM (short for random access memory), that is available for your programs to use. You can think of RAM as a series of numbered mailboxes that can each be used to hold a piece of data while the program is running. A single piece of data, stored in memory somewhere, is called a value.

Objects can be named or unnamed (anonymous). A named object is called a variable, and the name of the object is called an identifier. In our programs, most of the objects we create and use will be variables.

## Variable instantiation

In order to create a variable, we use a special kind of declaration statement called a definition.

```cpp
int x; // define a variable named x, of type int
```

==When the program is run (called runtime), the variable will be instantiated. Instantiation is a fancy word that means the object will be created and assigned a memory address.== Variables must be instantiated before they can be used to store values. For the sake of example, let’s say that variable _x_ is instantiated at memory location 140. Whenever the program uses variable x, it will access the value in memory location 140. ==An instantiated object is sometimes also called an instance.==

## Data types

==A data type tells the compiler what type of value (e.g. a number, a letter, text, etc…) the variable will store.==
In C++, the type of a variable must be known at compile-time (when the program is compiled), and that type can not be changed without recompiling the program

```cpp
double width; // define a variable named width, of type double
```

## Defining multiple variables

```cpp
int a, double b; // wrong (compiler error)

int a; double b; // correct (but not recommended)

// correct and recommended (easier to read)
int a;
double b;
int a, b; // correct
```

## Quiz time

What is data? --> Data is any information that can be moved, processed, or stored by a computer.


What is a value? --> A value is a single piece of data stored in memory.


What is a variable? --> A variable is a named region of memory.


What is an identifier? --> An identifier is the name that a variable is accessed by.


What is a type? --> A type tells the program how to interpret a value in memory.


What is an integer? --> An integer is a number that can be written without a fractional component


# 1.3C -  Variable assignment and initialization

- [[#Variable assignment|Variable assignment]]
- [[#Initialization|Initialization]]
- [[#Initializing multiple variables|Initializing multiple variables]]

## Variable assignment

As a reminder, here’s a short snippet that first allocates a single integer variable named _x_, then allocates two more integer variables named _y_ and _z_:

```cpp
int width; // define an integer variable named width
width = 5; // copy assignment of value 5 into variable width

// variable width now has value 5
```


## Initialization

One downside of assignment (`=`) is that it requires at least two statements: one to define the variable, and one to assign the value.

These two steps can be combined. When a variable is defined, you can also provide an initial value for the variable at the same time. This is called initialization. The value used to initialize a variable is called an initializer.

- When no initialization value is provided (such as for variable _a_ above), this is called default initialization
- When an initializer is provided after an equals sign, this is called copy initialization
- Direct initialization was initially introduced to allow for more efficient initialization of complex objects like class types
- modern way to initialize objects in C++ is to use a form of initialization that makes use of curly braces: brace initialization (also called uniform initialization or list initialization

There are 4 basic ways to initialize variables in C++:

```cpp
int a; // no initializer i.e. default initialization
int b = 5; // initializer after equals sign i.e. copy initialization
int c( 6 ); // initializer in parenthesis
int d { 7 }; // initializer in braces ----> PREFFERED

int width { 5 }; // direct brace initialization of value 5 into variable width (preferred)
int height = { 6 }; // copy brace initialization of value 6 into variable height
int depth {}; // value initialization
```

==What is the difference between initialization and assignment? --> Initialization gives a variable an initial value at the point when it is created. Assignment gives a variable a value at some point after the variable is created.==

## Initializing multiple variables

```cpp
int a = 5, b = 6; // copy initialization
int c( 7 ), d( 8 ); // direct initialization
int e { 9 }, f { 10 }; // brace initialization (preferred)
```



